

Kite Flight Quilt
By Janice Zeller Ryan of Better Off Thread
www.betteroffthread.com
Finished Size: 38”x50”
Supplies Needed:
Skinny Strip
Friendly!
1 Kona Classic Skinny Strips 
1 Kona White Skinny Strips
45”x60” Crib-sized Batting
1 ½ yards Backing fabric
½ yard Binding fabric
1 sheet (at least 5.5”x 5.5”)
heavy duty template plastic
OR 45º triangle ruler 
Step 1: Sew Strip Sets
- Arrange your strips as shown: 2 background strips, 1 light, 1 medium and 1 dark strip.
   
- Sew together.
- Repeat to create 13 five-strip sets.
page 1
Pattern Level: Confident Beginner
“I have basic block construction down and
would like to learn a new trick!”
Some notes about this pattern before you start:
In this quilt pattern, you will learn how to piece blocks on the bias. It can be a little tricky at 
first, but is a neat way to do something new. Just remember to pin, pin, pin!
This pattern utilizes all of the skinny strips, which means it has little waste. It also means you 
have to be extra-careful when cutting your blocks. We recommend that you read over all of 
the instructions before making your first cut!
All seam allowances are ¼” and all seams are pressed open.
Before you begin: print templates on last page and trace onto template plastic, or mark your 
triangle ruler as pictured in photo 2.  
For individual use only - Not for resale

Step 2: Cut Strip Sets
Step 3: Assemble the Blocks
- Sew triangles into A) 18 complete 
blocks made up of 8 triangles, B) 
10 half blocks made up of 4 
triangles and C) 4 quarter blocks 
made up of 2 triangles.
-Vary the colors on your blocks, 
but make sure the colors transition 
from dark to light or light to dark 
throughout each block.
page 2
B
C
A
Trace your paper template onto heavy duty template 
plastic. Be sure to mark the red line and line it up with the 
top seam before each cut. Be very conservative with your 
fabric and start close to the selvedge.
Cut triangles using templates 
provided on the last page.  8 
triangles will be cut from template 
A and 8 triangles from template B
Another option is to use a 45º triangle ruler.  Place a 
piece of tape 1 1/8” down from the top point.  Be sure 
to cut 8 triangles with the tape up and then flip your 
ruler to the wrong side for the second set of 8 triangles. 

Step 4: Assemble the Quilt Top
Arrange blocks on point. Sew blocks together into 8 diagonal rows, then sew rows 
together to complete quilt top.
Step 4: Finish the Quilt Top
- Sandwich and baste your quilt top, batting and backing. Quilt as desired. 
- Cut 5 strips 2 ½” x WOF from binding fabric to make double fold binding and bind.
- Enjoy your quilt!
page 3

